Queries, keys and values are terms
that you will be using for
attention in this video.
I will define them for you and
show you how they could be used.
Let's get started.
The original attention paper
was published in 2014.
Since then there have been multiple
variations on attention with some
models that don't rely on
recurrent neural networks.
For example,
the 2017 paper attention is all you need
to introduce the transformer model and
the form of attention based on information
retrieval, using queries, keys and values.
This is an efficient and powerful form
of attention that you'll be using
in this week's assignment in this video.
I'll show you how this type of attention
works as well as the concept of alignments
between languages.
Conceptually, you can think of keys and
values as a look up table.
The query is matched to a key and
the value associated with
that key is returned.
For example,
if we are translating between french and
english heure matches with time.
So we'd like to get the value for
time, in practice to the queries,
keys and
values are all represented by vectors.
Embedding vectors for example.
Due to this, you don't get exact matches
but the model can learn which words
are the most similar between
the source and target languages.
The similarity between
words is called alignment.
The query and key vectors are used
to calculate alignment scores that
are measures of how well the query and
keys match.
These alignment scores are then
turned into weights used for awaited,
sum of the value vectors,
this weighted sum of the value vectors
is returned as the attention vector.
This process can be performed
using scale dot-product attention.
The queries for each step are packed
together into a matrix Q.
So attention can be computed
simultaneously for each query.
The keys and values are also
packed into matrices K and V.
These matrices are the inputs for the
attention function shown as a diagram on
the left and mathematically on the rights.
First, the queries and
keys matrices are multiplied together
to get a matrix of alignments course.
These are then scaled by the square
root of the key vector dimension,
dk the scaling improves
the model performance for
larger model sizes and could be
seen as a regularization constants.
Next the scale scores are converted to
weights using the softmax function.
Such that the weights for
each query sum to one.
Finally the weights and the value matrices
are multiplied to get the attention
vectors for each query, you can think of
the keys and the values as being the same.
So when you multiply the softmax
output with V you are taking a linear
combination of your initial input which
is then being fed to the decoder.
Take a minute to make sure
what I just said makes sense.
No, that unlike the original form of
attention, scale dot-product attention
consists of only two Matrix
multiplications and no neural networks.
Since matrix multiplication is highly
optimized in modern deep learning
frameworks.
This form of attention is
much faster to compute but
this also means that the alignments
between the source and
target languages must
be learned elsewhere.
Typically, alignment is learned
in the input embeddings or
in other linear layers
before the attention layer.
Before moving on,
I want to look a bit closer at alignment.
The alignment weights form a matrix with
queries, targets words on the roads and
keys or source words on the columns.
Each entry in this matrix is
the weight for the correspondent query,
key pair word pairs that have similar
meanings, K and T, for example,
will have larger weights than
the similar words like day and time.
Through training, the model learns
which words have similar meanings and
encodes that information and
the query and key vectors.
Learning alignment like
this is beneficial for
translating between languages with
different grammatical structures.
Since attention looks at the entire
input and target sentences at once and
calculates alignments based on word pairs,
weights are assigned appropriately
regardless of word order.
For example, In the sentence, the
agreement on the European Economic Area
was signed in August 1992 and this other
sentence lack of lasagne economic open.
I mean you're not meeting of sangatte
revenues, you can see that zone in
the area are at different positions,
let's have the same meaning.
The model has learned to align them
appropriately, allowing the decoder to
focus on the appropriate inputs
words despite different ordering.
Congrats on absorbing
all these new concepts.
I introduced you to the purpose
of an attention layer.
You saw how it is related with
information retrieval and
I showed you how well it works even for
languages with very different structures.
In the next video, I'll be talking
about neural machine translation and
show you what the setup looks like for
the system.
I'll show you what the data set looks
like and the steps required for
pre processing your data sets.
You have now seen what key square ease and
values are.
These are important because if
you read a research paper you
might come across these terms and
you will understand them.
In the next video.
I will talk about the setup for
machine translation.